README.md, before:

[中文](./README_CN.md) ｜ English

<div align="center">

# 🎯 ComfyUI-Copilot: Your Intelligent Assistant for Comfy-UI

<!-- Enhancing Image Generation Development with Smart Assistance -->

<h4 align="center">

<div align="center">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-1.0.0-blue.svg" alt="Version"> 
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg" alt="License">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/AIDC-AI/ComfyUI-Copilot?color=yellow" alt="Stars">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/AIDC-AI/ComfyUI-Copilot?color=red" alt="Issues">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.10%2B-purple.svg" alt="Python">

</h4>


👾 _**Alibaba International Digital Commerce**_ 👾

:octocat: [**Github**](https://github.com/AIDC-AI/ComfyUI-Copilot)

</div>

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0372faf4-eb64-4aad-82e6-5fd69f349c2c

## 🌟 Introduction

Welcome to **ComfyUI-Copilot**, an intelligent assistant built on the Comfy-UI framework that simplifies and enhances the AI algorithm debugging and deployment process through natural language interactions.

Whether it's generating text, images, or audio, ComfyUI-Copilot offers intuitive node recommendations, workflow building aids, and model querying services to streamline your development process.

<div align="center">
<img src="assets/Framework.png"/>
</div>


---

## 🤔 Why Choose ComfyUI-Copilot?

- 🍀 **Ease of Use**: Lower the barriers to entry with natural language interaction, making Comfy-UI accessible even for beginners.
- 🍀 **Smart Recommendations**: Leverage AI-driven node suggestions and workflow implementations to boost development efficiency.
- 🍀 **Real-Time Assistance**: Benefit from round-the-clock interactive support to address any issues encountered during development.

---

## 🚀  Updates
### 2025.04.08 Release
#### ✨ New Features

##### 1. 🎉 GenLab Launch
We are excited to announce that GenLab is now officially live, bringing two powerful new features:

###### a. 🔍 Parameter Exploration
- Now you can optimize parameters for executable workflows
- How to use:
  - Click on the node you wish to explore
  - Select the parameters to explore
  - Set the parameter value ranges
  - The system will automatically batch execute different parameter combinations
  - Generated results support visual comparison, helping you quickly find the optimal parameter configuration
    
https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8069744a-411e-4a25-b1a5-4503a303bc6c

###### b. ✏️ Prompt Rewriting Assistant
- New feature helps users generate rich, high-quality "spells"
- Optimize your prompts to enhance the quality and diversity of generated content
  
https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/85decdbf-9ae5-4c78-818b-8db444ed4e7b

#### 🛠️ Bug Fixes
- 🐛 Fixed multiple known issues, improving system stability

### 2025.02.27 Release

* **Multiple Model Support**: Added DeepSeek AI and Qwen-plus models
* **Node Installation Guide**: Smart redirection to GitHub repos or Google search results for uninstalled nodes
* **Prompt Generation**: Enhanced SD prompt generation and error log analysis
* **Performance**: Fixed lag issues reported in GitHub Issues when using Copilot
* **Multilingual Support**: Implemented multilingual responses for node queries
* **Subgraph Recommendation**: Redesigned downstream subgraph generation with improved filtering
* **Model Database**: Added coverage for 60,000+ LoRA and Checkpoint models

---

## 🔥 Core Features

- 💎 **Interactive Q&A Bot**: Access a robust Q&A platform where users can inquire about model intricacies, node details, and parameter utilization with ease.
- 💎 **Natural Language Node Suggestions**: Employ our advanced search mechanism to swiftly identify desired nodes and enhance workflow construction efficacy.
<img src="assets/comfycopilot_nodes_recommend.gif"/>

- 💎 **Node Query System**: Dive deeper into nodes by exploring their explanations, parameter definitions, usage tips, and downstream workflow recommendations.
<img src="assets/comfycopilot_nodes_search.gif"/>

- 💎 **Smart Workflow Assistance**: Automatically discern developer needs to recommend and build fitting workflow frameworks, minimizing manual setup time.
<img src="assets/工作流检索.png"/>

- 💎 **Model Querying**: Prompt Copilot to seek foundational models and 'lora' based on requirements.
- 💎 **Up-and-Coming Features**:
  
  - **Automated Parameter Tuning**: Exploit machine learning algorithms for seamless analysis and optimization of critical workflow parameters.
  - **Error Diagnosis and Fix Suggestions**: Receive comprehensive error insights and corrective advice to swiftly pinpoint and resolve issues.

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

**Repository Overview**: Visit the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/AIDC-AI/ComfyUI-Copilot) to access the complete codebase.

1. **Installation**:
   
   ```bash
   cd ComfyUI/custom_nodes
   git clone git@github.com:AIDC-AI/ComfyUI-Copilot.git
   ```
   
   or
   
   ```bash
   cd ComfyUI/custom_nodes
   git clone https://github.com/AIDC-AI/ComfyUI-Copilot
   ```

   or
   
   **Using ComfyUI Manager**: Open ComfyUI Manager, click on Custom Nodes Manager, search for ComfyUI-Copilot, and click the install button.
   <img src="assets/comfyui_manager.png"/>
   <img src="assets/comfyui_manager_install.png"/>

2. **Activation**: After running the ComfyUI project, find the Copilot activation button at the top-right corner of the board to launch its service.
<img src="assets/start.png"/>

3.  **KeyGeneration**：Enter your email address on the link, the api-key will automatically be sent to your email address later.    
<img src="assets/keygen.png"/>

4. **Note:** This project is in its early stages. Please regularly update to the latest code to access new features. You can either use `git pull` to fetch the latest code or click "Update" in the ComfyUI Manager.

---

## 🤝 Contributions

We welcome any form of contribution! Feel free to make issues, pull requests, or suggest new features.

---

## 📞 Contact Us

For any queries or suggestions, please feel free to contact: ComfyUI-Copilot@service.alibaba.com.
<div align="center">
  <img src="assets/qrcode.jpg" width="20%"/> 
  
  WeChat
  
  <img src="assets/discordqrcode.png" width="20%"/>
  
  Discord
</div>
---

## 📚 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) file for details.

---
## Star History

[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=AIDC-AI/ComfyUI-Copilot&type=Date)](https://star-history.com/#AIDC-AI/ComfyUI-Copilot&Date)

Commit message:

feat: comfyui_ui_icon add

README.md, after:

[中文](./README_CN.md) ｜ English

<div align="center">

# 🎯 ComfyUI-Copilot: Your Intelligent Assistant for Comfy-UI

<!-- Enhancing Image Generation Development with Smart Assistance -->

<h4 align="center">

<div align="center">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-1.0.0-blue.svg" alt="Version"> 
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg" alt="License">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/AIDC-AI/ComfyUI-Copilot?color=yellow" alt="Stars">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/AIDC-AI/ComfyUI-Copilot?color=red" alt="Issues">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.10%2B-purple.svg" alt="Python">

</h4>


👾 _**Alibaba International Digital Commerce**_ 👾

:octocat: [**Github**](https://github.com/AIDC-AI/ComfyUI-Copilot)

</div>

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0372faf4-eb64-4aad-82e6-5fd69f349c2c

## 🌟 Introduction

Welcome to **ComfyUI-Copilot**, an intelligent assistant built on the Comfy-UI framework that simplifies and enhances the AI algorithm debugging and deployment process through natural language interactions.

Whether it's generating text, images, or audio, ComfyUI-Copilot offers intuitive node recommendations, workflow building aids, and model querying services to streamline your development process.

<div align="center">
<img src="assets/Framework.png"/>
</div>


---

## 🤔 Why Choose ComfyUI-Copilot?

- 🍀 **Ease of Use**: Lower the barriers to entry with natural language interaction, making Comfy-UI accessible even for beginners.
- 🍀 **Smart Recommendations**: Leverage AI-driven node suggestions and workflow implementations to boost development efficiency.
- 🍀 **Real-Time Assistance**: Benefit from round-the-clock interactive support to address any issues encountered during development.

---

## 🚀  Updates
### 2025.04.28 Release
- Our frontend UI is embedded within the ComfyUI interface. Simply click on the ComfyUI-Copilot icon in the left sidebar to launch our service.
- The UI automatically adapts to ComfyUI's black/light theme, switching background colors accordingly.
<img src="assets/comfyui_ui_icon.png"/>

### 2025.04.08 Release
#### ✨ New Features

##### 1. 🎉 GenLab Launch
We are excited to announce that GenLab is now officially live, bringing two powerful new features:

###### a. 🔍 Parameter Exploration
- Now you can optimize parameters for executable workflows
- How to use:
  - Click on the node you wish to explore
  - Select the parameters to explore
  - Set the parameter value ranges
  - The system will automatically batch execute different parameter combinations
  - Generated results support visual comparison, helping you quickly find the optimal parameter configuration
    
https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8069744a-411e-4a25-b1a5-4503a303bc6c

###### b. ✏️ Prompt Rewriting Assistant
- New feature helps users generate rich, high-quality "spells"
- Optimize your prompts to enhance the quality and diversity of generated content
  
https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/85decdbf-9ae5-4c78-818b-8db444ed4e7b

#### 🛠️ Bug Fixes
- 🐛 Fixed multiple known issues, improving system stability

### 2025.02.27 Release

* **Multiple Model Support**: Added DeepSeek AI and Qwen-plus models
* **Node Installation Guide**: Smart redirection to GitHub repos or Google search results for uninstalled nodes
* **Prompt Generation**: Enhanced SD prompt generation and error log analysis
* **Performance**: Fixed lag issues reported in GitHub Issues when using Copilot
* **Multilingual Support**: Implemented multilingual responses for node queries
* **Subgraph Recommendation**: Redesigned downstream subgraph generation with improved filtering
* **Model Database**: Added coverage for 60,000+ LoRA and Checkpoint models

---

## 🔥 Core Features

- 💎 **Interactive Q&A Bot**: Access a robust Q&A platform where users can inquire about model intricacies, node details, and parameter utilization with ease.
- 💎 **Natural Language Node Suggestions**: Employ our advanced search mechanism to swiftly identify desired nodes and enhance workflow construction efficacy.
<img src="assets/comfycopilot_nodes_recommend.gif"/>

- 💎 **Node Query System**: Dive deeper into nodes by exploring their explanations, parameter definitions, usage tips, and downstream workflow recommendations.
<img src="assets/comfycopilot_nodes_search.gif"/>

- 💎 **Smart Workflow Assistance**: Automatically discern developer needs to recommend and build fitting workflow frameworks, minimizing manual setup time.
<img src="assets/工作流检索.png"/>

- 💎 **Model Querying**: Prompt Copilot to seek foundational models and 'lora' based on requirements.
- 💎 **Up-and-Coming Features**:
  
  - **Automated Parameter Tuning**: Exploit machine learning algorithms for seamless analysis and optimization of critical workflow parameters.
  - **Error Diagnosis and Fix Suggestions**: Receive comprehensive error insights and corrective advice to swiftly pinpoint and resolve issues.

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

**Repository Overview**: Visit the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/AIDC-AI/ComfyUI-Copilot) to access the complete codebase.

1. **Installation**:
   
   ```bash
   cd ComfyUI/custom_nodes
   git clone git@github.com:AIDC-AI/ComfyUI-Copilot.git
   ```
   
   or
   
   ```bash
   cd ComfyUI/custom_nodes
   git clone https://github.com/AIDC-AI/ComfyUI-Copilot
   ```

   or
   
   **Using ComfyUI Manager**: Open ComfyUI Manager, click on Custom Nodes Manager, search for ComfyUI-Copilot, and click the install button.
   <img src="assets/comfyui_manager.png"/>
   <img src="assets/comfyui_manager_install.png"/>

2. **Activation**: After running the ComfyUI project, find the Copilot activation button at the top-right corner of the board to launch its service.
<img src="assets/start.png"/>

3.  **KeyGeneration**：Enter your email address on the link, the api-key will automatically be sent to your email address later.    
<img src="assets/keygen.png"/>

4. **Note:** This project is in its early stages. Please regularly update to the latest code to access new features. You can either use `git pull` to fetch the latest code or click "Update" in the ComfyUI Manager.

---

## 🤝 Contributions

We welcome any form of contribution! Feel free to make issues, pull requests, or suggest new features.

---

## 📞 Contact Us

For any queries or suggestions, please feel free to contact: ComfyUI-Copilot@service.alibaba.com.
<div align="center">
  <img src="assets/qrcode.jpg" width="20%"/> 
  
  WeChat
  
  <img src="assets/discordqrcode.png" width="20%"/>
  
  Discord
</div>
---

## 📚 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) file for details.

---
## Star History

[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=AIDC-AI/ComfyUI-Copilot&type=Date)](https://star-history.com/#AIDC-AI/ComfyUI-Copilot&Date)
